# Predict Student Performance from Game Play
## *Trace student learning from Jo Wilder online educational game*
[Kaggle Challenge link](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/predict-student-performance-from-game-play/overview)\
The dataset is based on the game [Jo Wilder and the Capital Chase](https://pbswisconsineducation.org/jowilder/play-the-game/)
### Goal of the Competition
The goal of this competition is to predict student performance during game-based learning in real-time. We'll develop a model trained on one of the largest open datasets of game logs.
### Dataset Description
This competition uses the Kaggle's time series API. Test data will be delivered in groupings that do not allow access to future data. The objective of this competition is to use time series data generated by an online educational game to determine whether players will answer questions correctly. There are three question checkpoints (level 4, level 12, and level 22), each with a number of questions. At each checkpoint, you will have access to all previous test data for that section.
### What files do I need?
You have access to the training data and labels. There are 18 questions for each sessions - you are not given the answers, but are simply told whether the user for a particular session answered each question correctly.
When you are ready to predict, use the sample notebook to iterate over the test data, which is split as described above and served up as Pandas dataframes. Make your predictions for each group of questions - at the end of this process a submission.csv file will have been created for you. Simply submit your notebook.
### What should I expect the data format to be?
The training columns are as listed below. The label rows are identified with <session_id>_<question #>. Each session will have 18 rows, representing 18 questions.
### What am I predicting?
For each <session_id>_<question #>, you are predicting the correct column, identifying whether you believe the user for this particular session will answer this question correctly, using only the previous information for the session.
The timeseries API presents the questions and data to you in order of levels - level segments 0-4, 5-12, and 13-22 are each provided in sequence, and you will be predicting the correctness of each segment's questions as they are presented.
Note that the hidden test set is roughly as large as the training set; you should expect it will take much longer to run on than the three test samples provided.
### Files
train.csv - the training set\
test.csv - the test set\
sample_submission.csv - a sample submission file in the correct format\
train_labels.csv - correct value for all 18 questions for each session in the training set
### Columns
session_id - the ID of the session the event took place in\
index - the index of the event for the session\
elapsed_time - how much time has passed (in milliseconds) between the start of the session and when the event was recorded\
event_name - the name of the event type\
name - the event name (e.g. identifies whether a notebook_click is is opening or closing the notebook)\
level - what level of the game the event occurred in (0 to 22)\
page - the page number of the event (only for notebook-related events)\
room_coor_x - the coordinates of the click in reference to the in-game room (only for click events)\
room_coor_y - the coordinates of the click in reference to the in-game room (only for click events)\
screen_coor_x - the coordinates of the click in reference to the player’s screen (only for click events)\
screen_coor_y - the coordinates of the click in reference to the player’s screen (only for click events)\
hover_duration - how long (in milliseconds) the hover happened for (only for hover events)\
text - the text the player sees during this event\
fqid - the fully qualified ID of the event\
room_fqid - the fully qualified ID of the room the event took place in\
text_fqid - the fully qualified ID of the\
fullscreen - whether the player is in fullscreen mode\
hq - whether the game is in high-quality\
music - whether the game music is on or off\
level_group - which group of levels - and group of questions - this row belongs to (0-4, 5-12, 13-22)\


